---
layout: post
title: ansible note
date: 2012-08-04
tag: Iaas
---

# update python to 2.7.11 on ubuntu


apt_repository  need python >2.7.9
ansible_galaxy  has bug on ansible1.9.4 on proxy
[https://launchpad.net/~fkrull/+archive/ubuntu/deadsnakes-python2.7](https://launchpad.net/~fkrull/+archive/ubuntu/deadsnakes-python2.7)

```
$sudo -E apt-add-repository ppa:fkrull/deadsnakes-python2.7

(deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/fkrull/deadsnakes-python2.7/ubuntu trusty main)

$sudo -E apt-get install --only-upgrade python2.7

$python --version

Python 2.7.11
```



Install
$ sudo -E apt-get install software-properties-common
$ sudo  -E apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
$ sudo -E apt-get update
$ sudo -E apt-get install --only-upgrade ansible
Install latest ansible
  $git clone git://github.com/ansible/ansible.git --recursive

  $virtualenv -p /home/whg/python2.7.11/bin/python python2.7.11

$. ./python2.7.11/bin/activate
$sudo pip install PyYAML Jinja2 httplib2 six
Setting up Ansible to run out of checkout(~/.bashrc)
export PATH=/home/ubuntu/ansible/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games
export export PYTHONPATH=/home/ubuntu/ansible/lib:
sudo PYTHONPATH=/home/ubuntu/ansible/lib ansible

or /etc/sudoers

Defaults        env_reset

Defaults        env_keep += "PYTHONPATH"




ansible-galaxy(ansible > 2 otherwise of proxy bug)
use role installed from galaxy
$ansible-galaxy install angstwad.docker_ubuntu

#create a play book to use the role

---

- hosts: all

  sudo: yes

  roles:

    - angstwad.docker_ubuntu

#test to run the book

$ansible-playbook t1.yml

Building Role Scaffolding
$ansible-galaxy init rolename

Best Practices:
Create a dedicated ansible node on the local net in the cloud to play book
copy directory to remote node using scp dir remote:~/dir or using synchronize module instead of copy


facts about any system
$ansible <hostname>-m setup | less

#facter comes as part of extra modules. to use the facter module, the "facter" and #"ruby-json" packages preinstalled on the target host.

$ansible <hostname> -m facter | less





variables
The following are the places from where Ansible accepts variables:

The default directory inside a role
Inventory variables
The host_vars and group_vars parameters defined in separate directories
The host/group vars parameter defined in an inventory file
Variables in playbooks and role parameters
The vars directory inside a role and variables defined inside a play
Extra variables provided with the -e option at runtime






Patterns

Patterns in Ansible are how we decide which hosts to manage.The following patterns address one or more groups. Groups separated by a colon indicate an “OR” configuration. This means the host may be in either one group or the other:
hosts: name1:name2:group1:group2

Disable SSH Host Key Checking For All Hosts
set these options permanently in ~/.ssh/config (for the current user) or in /etc/ssh/ssh_config (for all users), either for all hosts or for a given set of IP addresses

Host *
   StrictHostKeyChecking no
   UserKnownHostsFile=/dev/null




Ansible looks for an ansible.cfg file in the following places, in this order:

File specified by the ANSIBLE_CONFIG environment variable

./ansible.cfg (ansible.cfg in the current directory)

~/.ansible.cfg (.ansible.cfg in your home directory)

/etc/ansible/ansible.cfg









Ansible will then move to the next task in the list, and go through these same four steps. It’s important to note that:

Ansible runs each task in parallel across all hosts.

Ansible waits until all hosts have completed a task before moving to the next task.

Ansible runs the tasks in the order that you specify them.

Ansible supports the ssh-agent program, so you don’t need to explicitly specify SSH key files in your inventory files. See “SSH Agent” for more details if you haven’t used ssh-agent before.




YAML to get started with your first playbook:

The first line of a playbook should begin with "--- " (three hyphens) which indicates the beginning of the YAML document.
Lists in YAML are represented with a hyphen followed by a white space. A playbook contains a list of plays; they are represented with "- ". Each play is an associative array, a dictionary, or a map in terms of key-value pairs.
Indentations are important. All members of a list should be at the same indentation level.
Each play can contain key-value pairs separated by ":" to denote hosts, variables, roles, tasks, and so on.


role dependencies
pecify role dependency inside the meta subdirectory



Safely limiting Ansible playbooks to a single machine
There's also a cute little trick that lets you specify a single host on the command line (or multiple hosts, I guess), without an intermediary inventory:

ansible-playbook -i "imac1-local," user.yml
Note the comma (,) at the end; this signals that it's a list, not a file
